Data quality is the measure of how well a dataset satisfies its intended use.
So how do we know what its intended use is? How do we measure that?
When we talk about the intended use of data,
we're typically referring to how
our downstream data consumers are going to utilize this data.
Before we can measure data quality,
we need to have a set of standards to measure against.
This is where requirements come in.
Defining requirements for our data pipelines and collaborating with
our data consumers on those requirements is how we can set and measure data quality.
Let's walk through examples of the types of requirements we can
expect to encounter in our day-to-day as data engineers.
This list isn't meant to be exhaustive.
However, it is a set of good examples of real-world data quality measurements.
The first thing we're likely to consider is the size of our data,
this type of requirement,
at a minimum sets the expectation that data exists.
In our bikeshare example,
we would like to check that after we've copied our records from
S3 to Redshift that we have more than one row in our trips table.
If we don't have any records,
then we know we violated the data size constraint.
Some pipelines may take size requirements further and
check the data produced does not exceed a certain size.
Data accuracy is another common measure of data quality.
When we produce data for our data consumers to use,
we want to make sure it's meaningful.
This builds trust in our data consumers,
it means that we can have more confidence
building on top of the insights or pipelines generate.
Exactly how accuracy is measured is dependent on the application.
In our bikeshare example,
we calculated a station traffic table.
After we've produced that table,
we can perform spot checks to verify
the maximum number of visits and the minimum number of
visits as well as the average number of visits
across those stations see with unexpected boundaries.
For example, if we had 3.6 million rides in 2018 and we
saw that our MAX station had some number much higher than that like 10 million,
or 999 million, or fewer than say 1,000 rides,
then we pretty sure something went wrong in our analysis,
and the quality of our data is likely very poor.
Timeliness of data is another critical component in determining data quality.
Many datasets are used in a time-critical context.
Maybe you want to send thank you emails to a customer
or send out a batch of receipts every 15 minutes.
Maybe your marketing department uses all the data from
the past hour to make automated decisions
about what ads to purchase in a tool like
Google AdWords based on nearly real-time analytics.
Suffice it to say,
in both of those scenarios,
if our data processing where to take longer than an expected window,
the data may be of no use or worse,
maybe inaccurate and lead to bad decision-making.
For example, in that marketing example,
if we spent a million dollars on an ad buy based on data that was hours out of date,
our marketing department will not be very happy.
Thankfully, Airflow make setting SLAs to fail task and DAGs that take too long simple.
We'll see this in our next exercise shortly.
Ensuring that our pipelines execute with a given frequency is
closely related to measuring the timeliness of data as we just discussed.
We reviewed pipeline scheduling earlier in the lecture,
but I'll just repeat that it's typically important that
analysis of data had been a particular frequency or schedule.
Thankfully, as you've already know,
Airflow not only takes the burden off of us to make sure that
our pipelines execute on a particular schedule,
but it also keeps track of when and how long each pipeline run took.
So just by using Airflow,
we'll already be able to easily measure and track
this requirement to satisfy quality metrics.
Finally, some of you may have heard of
GDPR or other privacy regulations from around the world.
Even when our businesses don't come under the auspices of privacy regulations,
it's typically a good idea to keep
as much sensitive and personally identifiable information
out of our analyses as possible.
This is respectful to our users and a good defensive data practice.
It's increasingly common for businesses to ask
their engineering departments to ensure that their processes
protect their client's data and can be easily
updated to remove personally identifiable information.
In these cases, we can create tasks in our DAGs that check the data output in
the stages of our pipelines to ensure
that sensitive columns in our data are no longer present.
It's a simple check, but it's an important one.